No,do not see any unusual observations within my data set. All my data seems to be closer together. I can’t not find and outliers that are too big or too small.  There also “NA” for non-applicable, I have removed those for numerical parts of the graph.

Learned that the mode for “Patients Taking Anti-Depressants” within bar chart is mainly “No”. There is somewhat of a variability since “No” is slightly larger than “Yes”. This shows that “No” is the most occurring category, it is the biggest compared to “Yes”. Thus, many patients were not taking anti-depressants, and the converse. The mode for “Type of treatment” is “BtheB” which is beat the blues, and the variance is somewhat there since “BtheB” is higher than “TAU” Treatment as usual. Since, both the graphs have similar variability a correlation can be made that “BtheB” patients had no anti-depressants. A small number of patients were taking anti-depressants. If many patients were taking Anti-Depressants, it will result a loss of accuracy, because then the data will result in mainly being positive and thus no improvement in depression.

The “Beck Depression Inventory” Graph above in the x-axis has values from 0 to 50, and the frequency from 0 to around 7.  The graph seems to be discontinuous at around certain ranges such as 0 to 15, 25, close to 40 and 45. The value that occurred most frequently seems around 23. The shape of the data seems to be somewhat symmetric. Therefor the proper center for the graph is both mean and median, thus the Median is 22. The measure of the spread can IQR or standard deviation, in this case the IQR is third quartile minus the first quartile which is 15.25. The first quartile shows that the middle value is 15 meaning the patients felt disturbed. After the second quartile the value is 30.25 which is moderation depression. The highest value is 49, which means the patients felt extremely depressed. Overall, the data seems to be symmetric because various spectrums of depression before taking the treatment. 

Two Numerical variables to compare “bdi.pre” and “bdi.8m”. I expect them to have a negative relationship, mainly because the treatment proved to be successful. Therefor “bdi.pre” Beck depression inventory pretreatment should have lowest score compared after 8 months.

The “Before and After Treatment plot” shows that the data is has a small positive trend with very little association.  Numerically, looking at the data points “bdi.pre” is always higher than “bdi.8m”.  This shows that that “bdi.pre”, Beck Depression Inventory score pre-treatment score is much higher while “bdi.8m” Beck Depression Inventory after 8 months is lower. Showing that the treatment was in fact a success and able to significantly lower depression. 

A linear fit in this case is not appropriate since there is a very small positive trend with a little association
